factorize_a_city/README.md, before:

# Learning to Factorize and Relight a City
[Project Page](https://factorize-a-city.github.io/) |
[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2008.02796) 

This code accompanies the paper

**Learning to Factorize and Relight a City** \
Andrew Liu, Shiry Ginosar, Tinghui Zhou, Alexei A. Efros, Noah Snavely \
ECCV 2020

*Please note that this is not an officially supported Google product.*

## Python Environment

The following code base was successfully ran with Python 3.7.9. We suggest
installing the library in a vitual environment as our code requires older
versions of libraries.

To install using pip, run: \
`pip3 install -r requirements.txt`

## Data

We include a small sample of our NYC test stack to test our code on. To access
the resources, run `source download_sample_resources.sh`.

## Scripts

#### Alignment

In order to align new stacks, we run twenty gradient descent steps of alignment
optimization with frozen network weights. For the test stacks provided, we have
already computed their alignment with this process and saved the results in
`alignment.npy`.

Command: \
`python -m factorize_a_city.align_stack --misaligned_stack_folder=factorize_a_city/data/000057`

#### Decomposition

Recovers the intrinsic image components (log reflectance and log shading) from
an input stack of panoramas.

Command: \
`python -m factorize_a_city.compute_intrinsic_components --stack_folder=factorize_a_city/data/000057
--output_dir=factorize_a_city/intrinsic_image_results`

#### Sun Position Relighting

Given an input stack representing the same scene and a desired lighting context
specified from `data/lighting_context.npy` by `lighting_context_index`,
generates a sequence of sun positions around the entire input scene.

Command: \
`python -m factorize_a_city.rotate_sun_azimuth --stack_folder=factorize_a_city/data/000057
--lighting_context_index=1 --azimuth_frame_rate=10 --output_dir=factorize_a_city/rotate_results`

#### Lighting Condition Relighting

Relights an input panorama stack using illumination conditions copied from
exemplar test panoramas. These factors are saved in `factorize_a_city/data/azimuth.npy` and
`factorize_a_city/data/lighting_context`.

Command: \
`python -m factorize_a_city.relight_scene --stack_folder=factorize_a_city/data/000057 --output_dir=factorize_a_city/relit_results`

Commit message:

Adds download_sample_resources.sh and update the README to include information about accessing sample data and pre-trained checkpoint.
PiperOrigin-RevId: 339104865

factorize_a_city/README.md, after:

![teaser](https://factorize-a-city.github.io/images/teaser_still.jpg)
# Learning to Factorize and Relight a City
[Project Page](https://factorize-a-city.github.io/) |
[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2008.02796) 

This code accompanies the paper

**Learning to Factorize and Relight a City** \
Andrew Liu, Shiry Ginosar, Tinghui Zhou, Alexei A. Efros, Noah Snavely \
ECCV 2020

![weather change](https://factorize-a-city.github.io/images/weather_change.gif)
![sun rotation](https://factorize-a-city.github.io/images/paris_rot_web.gif)

*Please note that this is not an officially supported Google product.*

## Python Environment

The following code base was successfully ran with Python 3.7.9. We suggest
installing the library in a vitual environment as our code requires older
versions of libraries.

To install using pip, run: \
`pip3 install -r requirements.txt`

## Sample Data and Pre-trained Checkpoint

We include our pretrained network and a small sample of our NYC test stack to
test our code on. To access, run: \
`source download_sample_resources.sh`

This will downoad and create `data` directory with sample stacks and their estimated
alignment. It will also download and create a `ckpt` folder which contains our
pretrained checkpoint.

## Scripts

#### Alignment

In order to align new stacks, we run twenty gradient descent steps of alignment
optimization with frozen network weights. For the test stacks provided, we have
already computed their alignment with this process and saved the results in
`alignment.npy`.

Command: \
`python -m factorize_a_city.align_stack --misaligned_stack_folder=factorize_a_city/data/000057`

#### Decomposition

Recovers the intrinsic image components (log reflectance and log shading) from
an input stack of panoramas.

Command: \
`python -m factorize_a_city.compute_intrinsic_components --stack_folder=factorize_a_city/data/000057
--output_dir=factorize_a_city/intrinsic_image_results`

#### Sun Position Relighting

Given an input stack representing the same scene and a desired lighting context
specified from `data/lighting_context.npy` by `lighting_context_index`,
generates a sequence of sun positions around the entire input scene.

Command: \
`python -m factorize_a_city.rotate_sun_azimuth --stack_folder=factorize_a_city/data/000057
--lighting_context_index=1 --azimuth_frame_rate=10 --output_dir=factorize_a_city/rotate_results`

#### Lighting Condition Relighting

Relights an input panorama stack using illumination conditions copied from
exemplar test panoramas. These factors are saved in `factorize_a_city/data/azimuth.npy` and
`factorize_a_city/data/lighting_context`.

Command: \
`python -m factorize_a_city.relight_scene --stack_folder=factorize_a_city/data/000057 --output_dir=factorize_a_city/relit_results`
