simulation_research/next_day_wildfire_spread/README.md, before:

# Next Day Wildfire Spread: A Machine Learning Data Set to Predict Wildfire Spreading from Remote-Sensing Data

This is the code accompanying the paper ["Next Day Wildfire Spread: A Machine Learning Data Set to Predict Wildfire Spreading from Remote-Sensing Data"](http://arxiv.org/abs/2112.02447).

The dataset can be found on [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/fantineh/next-day-wildfire-spread).

If you use this code or data, please cite:

F. Huot, R. L. Hu, N. Goyal, T. Sankar, M. Ihme, and Y.-F. Chen, “Next Day Wildfire Spread: A Machine Learning Data Set to Predict Wildfire Spreading from Remote-Sensing Data”, arXiv preprint, 2021.

## Data Demo

dataset_demo.ipynb is a Jupyter Notebook demonstrating how to load and parse the data set.

## Data Export

To export the data yourself, ensure you have a Google Storage bucket. Here is
an example command, substituting your own bucket.

```
python3 -m simulation_research.next_day_wildfire_spread.data_export.export_ee_training_data_main \
--bucket=${BUCKET} \
--start_date="2020-01-01" \
--end_date="2021-01-01"
```

Commit message:

Add job for extracting ongoing fire
PiperOrigin-RevId: 424692178

simulation_research/next_day_wildfire_spread/README.md, after:

# Next Day Wildfire Spread: A Machine Learning Data Set to Predict Wildfire Spreading from Remote-Sensing Data

This is the code accompanying the paper ["Next Day Wildfire Spread: A Machine
Learning Data Set to Predict Wildfire Spreading from Remote-Sensing
Data"](http://arxiv.org/abs/2112.02447).

The dataset can be found on
[Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/fantineh/next-day-wildfire-spread).

If you use this code or data, please cite:

F. Huot, R. L. Hu, N. Goyal, T. Sankar, M. Ihme, and Y.-F. Chen, “Next Day
Wildfire Spread: A Machine Learning Data Set to Predict Wildfire Spreading from
Remote-Sensing Data”, arXiv preprint, 2021.

## Data Demo

dataset_demo.ipynb is a Jupyter Notebook demonstrating how to load and parse the
data set.

## Data Export

To export the data yourself, ensure you have a Google Storage bucket. Here is an
example command, substituting your own bucket.

```
python3 -m simulation_research.next_day_wildfire_spread.data_export.export_ee_training_data_main \
--bucket=${BUCKET} \
--start_date="2020-01-01" \
--end_date="2021-01-01"
```

With the output of the previous export job, you can extract ongoing fires (fires
for which there is at least one positive fire label in the PrevFireMask and in
the FireMask) and write them to TFRecords. Here is an example command,
substituting the location of your data (copied from Google Cloud to a local
directory).

```
python3 -m simulation_research.next_day_wildfire_spread.data_export.extract_ongoing_fires_main \
--file_pattern="${DATA_DIR}/*.tfrecord.gz" \
--out_file_prefix="${DATA_DIR}/"
```
