gfsa/README.md, before:

# Learning Graph Structure With A Finite-State Automaton Layer

This directory contains the implementation of the Graph Finite-State Automaton
layer described in

["Learning Graph Structure With A Finite-State Automaton Layer"](https://arxiv.org/abs/2007.04929)

Daniel D. Johnson, Hugo Larochelle, Daniel Tarlow (2020).

If you use the code, models, or data in this repository, please cite the following paper:
```
@inproceedings{gfsa,
author    = {Daniel D. Johnson and
             Hugo Larochelle and
             Daniel Tarlow},
title     = {Learning graph structure with a finite-state automaton layer},
booktitle = {Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems},
year      = {2020}
}
```

## Setting up the environment

The code in this repository is written for Python 3.6. We recommend creating
a virtual environment and then installing the requirements in
`requirements.txt`. You may also want to configure your JAX installation for
GPU support; see the [JAX documentation](https://github.com/google/jax#installation)
for details.

## Structure of this repository

### Core implementation of the GFSA solver

- `graph_types.py` defines data structures for representing graph MDPs.
- `automaton_builder.py` is responsible for encoding graphs into tensors and
  computing the GFSA absorbing distribution.
- `automaton_sampling.py` implements the RL ablation of the GFSA layer.

### General utilities

- `jax_util.py` contains utilities for working with JAX and Flax.
- `linear_solvers.py` implements the Richardson iterative solver.
- `schema_util.py` defines helper functions for working with MDP families with
  a shared action and observation space.
- `sparse_operator.py` implements a sparse operator abstraction.

### Working with ASTs

- `generic_ast_graphs.py` defines a transformation from ASTs to MDPs.
- `py_ast_graphs.py` defines an AST for a simple subset of Python.
- `ast_spec_inference.py` can be used to construct an MDP family from a
  dataset of ASTs.

### Working with datasets

- `datasets/graph_bundle.py` defines data structures for working with graphs
  that are associated with encoded MDP.
- `datasets/graph_edge_util.py` implements helpers to construct MDPs based on
  graph edges.
- `datasets/data_loading.py` implements a pure-Python collection of dataset
  iterators.
- `datasets/padding_calibration.py` helps determine maximum example sizes that
  do not throw out too many examples.
- `datasets/mazes` defines MDPs and data-generation for the grid-world task.
- `datasets/random_python/top_down_refinement.py` implements a generalized
  AST generator based on a probabilistic context-free grammar.
- `datasets/random_python/python_numbers_control_flow.py` contains the specific
  generator used for the static analysis tasks.
- `datasets/var_misuse/example_definition.py` defines data structures for the
  variable-misuse task.

### Flax modules

The `model` subdirectory implements the GFSA layer, other graph architectures,
and combined models as Flax modules.

- `model/automaton_layer.py` contains the GFSA layer itself.
- `model/graph_layers.py` contains various graph architecture building blocks.
- `model/edge_supervision_models.py` assembles these blocks into models for the
  Python static analysis tasks.
- `model/end_to_end_stack.py` unifies the APIs of the building blocks so that
  they can be freely composed.
- `model/var_misuse_models.py` contains the implementation of the full models
  for the variable misuse tasks.
- `model/model_util.py` and `model/side_outputs.py` define some helper functions
  for Flax models.

### Training

- `training/configs` contains example gin-config configuration files for
  training a model.
- `training/simple_train.py` is the main entry point for training or evaluating
  a model on the three tasks described in the paper.
- `training/train_util.py` and `training/simple_runner.py` contain common logic
  for training between the three tasks.
- `training/train_edge_supervision_lib.py`, `training/train_maze_lib.py`, and
  `training/train_var_misuse_lib.py` contain the logic for each of the three
  tasks.
- `training/learning_rate_schedules.py` implements some simple learning rate
  schedules.
- `training/gin_util.py` defines a helper function for writing complex gin
  configurations.


## Future updates

This repository will be updated in the future with links to the datasets used
in the paper, along with details on how to train models using the GFSA layer.

Commit message:

Add introductory Colab notebooks for GFSA layer.
PiperOrigin-RevId: 345755671

gfsa/README.md, after:

# Learning Graph Structure With A Finite-State Automaton Layer

This directory contains the implementation of the Graph Finite-State Automaton
layer described in

["Learning Graph Structure With A Finite-State Automaton Layer"](https://arxiv.org/abs/2007.04929)

Daniel D. Johnson, Hugo Larochelle, Daniel Tarlow (2020).

If you use the code, models, or data in this repository, please cite the following paper:
```
@inproceedings{gfsa,
author    = {Daniel D. Johnson and
             Hugo Larochelle and
             Daniel Tarlow},
title     = {Learning graph structure with a finite-state automaton layer},
booktitle = {Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems},
year      = {2020}
}
```

## Interactive demo notebooks

Want to see the GFSA layer in action? A good starting point is the interactive
demo notebook, which shows how to train the GFSA layer to do a simple static
analysis of Python code:

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)][notebook_demo]

You may also be interested in the [new task guide notebook][notebook_new_task_guide],
which describes how to use the GFSA layer for new types of graphs and graph-based
MDPs.

[notebook_demo]: https://colab.research.google.com/github/google-research/google-research/blob/master/gfsa/notebooks/demo_learning_static_analyses.ipynb
[notebook_new_task_guide]: https://colab.research.google.com/github/google-research/google-research/blob/master/gfsa/notebooks/guide_for_new_tasks.ipynb

## Setting up the environment

The code in this repository is written for Python 3.6. We recommend creating
a virtual environment and then installing the requirements in
`requirements.txt`. You may also want to configure your JAX installation for
GPU support; see the [JAX documentation](https://github.com/google/jax#installation)
for details.

## Structure of this repository

### Core implementation of the GFSA solver

- `graph_types.py` defines data structures for representing graph MDPs.
- `automaton_builder.py` is responsible for encoding graphs into tensors and
  computing the GFSA absorbing distribution.
- `automaton_sampling.py` implements the RL ablation of the GFSA layer.

### General utilities

- `jax_util.py` contains utilities for working with JAX and Flax.
- `linear_solvers.py` implements the Richardson iterative solver.
- `schema_util.py` defines helper functions for working with MDP families with
  a shared action and observation space.
- `sparse_operator.py` implements a sparse operator abstraction.

### Working with ASTs

- `generic_ast_graphs.py` defines a transformation from ASTs to MDPs.
- `py_ast_graphs.py` defines an AST for a simple subset of Python.
- `ast_spec_inference.py` can be used to construct an MDP family from a
  dataset of ASTs.

### Working with datasets

- `datasets/graph_bundle.py` defines data structures for working with graphs
  that are associated with encoded MDP.
- `datasets/graph_edge_util.py` implements helpers to construct MDPs based on
  graph edges.
- `datasets/data_loading.py` implements a pure-Python collection of dataset
  iterators.
- `datasets/padding_calibration.py` helps determine maximum example sizes that
  do not throw out too many examples.
- `datasets/mazes` defines MDPs and data-generation for the grid-world task.
- `datasets/random_python/top_down_refinement.py` implements a generalized
  AST generator based on a probabilistic context-free grammar.
- `datasets/random_python/python_numbers_control_flow.py` contains the specific
  generator used for the static analysis tasks.
- `datasets/var_misuse/example_definition.py` defines data structures for the
  variable-misuse task.

### Flax modules

The `model` subdirectory implements the GFSA layer, other graph architectures,
and combined models as Flax modules.

- `model/automaton_layer.py` contains the GFSA layer itself.
- `model/graph_layers.py` contains various graph architecture building blocks.
- `model/edge_supervision_models.py` assembles these blocks into models for the
  Python static analysis tasks.
- `model/end_to_end_stack.py` unifies the APIs of the building blocks so that
  they can be freely composed.
- `model/var_misuse_models.py` contains the implementation of the full models
  for the variable misuse tasks.
- `model/model_util.py` and `model/side_outputs.py` define some helper functions
  for Flax models.

### Training

- `training/configs` contains example gin-config configuration files for
  training a model.
- `training/simple_train.py` is the main entry point for training or evaluating
  a model on the three tasks described in the paper.
- `training/train_util.py` and `training/simple_runner.py` contain common logic
  for training between the three tasks.
- `training/train_edge_supervision_lib.py`, `training/train_maze_lib.py`, and
  `training/train_var_misuse_lib.py` contain the logic for each of the three
  tasks.
- `training/learning_rate_schedules.py` implements some simple learning rate
  schedules.
- `training/gin_util.py` defines a helper function for writing complex gin
  configurations.
