routing_transformer/README.md, before:

# Efficient content-based sparse attention with Routing Transformers

<img src = "image/routing_attention.png" alt="Routing attention">

Code-base accompanying the [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2003.05997). See also
the accompanying [slides](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1maX-UQbtnVtxQqLmHvWVN6LNYtnBaTd9/view?usp=sharing)
for a quick overview.

## Explanation of hyperparameters

### Local Attention

*   `local_num_heads`: Number of local attention heads
*   `query_shape`: This represents the shape of the query block.
    *   For 1-d local attention with block size `b`, this would be `(b,)`
*   `memory_query_shape`: This represents the query shape of memory antecedent
    and is useful for encoder-decoder attention
    * This is usually set the same as `query_shape` by default
    * This is useful when inputs and targets are of different lengths
    * E.g., if inputs are of length `4096` and targets of length `8192`
    * Plausible setting:`query_shape = (256,)`, `memory_flange = (256,)` and
      `memory_query_shape = (128,)`
    * This is because with block size `256`, the targets will have `32` blocks
    * To match this in enc-dec attention, the inputs must have `32` blocks
    * This is why we set `memory_query_shape = (4096/32,) = (128,)`
*   `memory_flange`: This represents the overlap of the memory block
    * Example setting: `query_shape = (b,)` and `memory_flange = (m * b, )`
    * Masked: Each query block attends to `m` previous blocks
    * Unmasked: Each query block attends to `m` previous & `m` subsequent blocks
    * Setting this to `(0,)` means all the blocks are independent of each other
    * Setting to `(0,)` is used for full attention, or for axial attention
    * This must be a multiple of `query_shape` in every dimension
*   Example setting can be found in `sparse_transformer.py` under `pg19_local8k`

### Routing Attention

*   `sparsity_cluster_num_heads`: Number of routing attention heads
*   `sparsity_cluster_size`: Number of clusters
*   `sparsity_cluster_attention_window`: Average size of each cluster
*   `sparsity_skip_first`: Number of initial layers to skip routing attention
    *   `sparsity_skip_first = 0` would have routing attention in every layer
    *   `sparsity_skip_first` equalling total layers would have no routing
        attention
*   Example setting can be found in `sparse_transformer.py` under
    `pg19_local_cluster8k`

## Samples

### PG-19 (sequence length 8k):

- [sample1](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YE6644MprOr1vJkY0lJPeYswJQxncBmD_O12LQAMxIA/edit?usp=sharing)
- [sample2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UwCYAbIMHOXe07X5ELMwTPa90rqrZCGiJML4jywc0yY/edit?usp=sharing)
- [sample3](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dC2zNExumaaxTu7BiClo88bZ0JKJMAJolJQDkcOHT70/edit?usp=sharing)
- [sample4](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zoYG-x_1ElNZc6TatHfGgasNKAuOEqtaBI91ygfb2jA/edit?usp=sharing)
- [sample5](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XvwY8jFUGGEw3S2HzNx7gBg-9nzSRWHtQVNQAyTVuAU/edit?usp=sharing)
- [sample6](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RZrOI8e7n7czgA_a7Mt34ePymUFwyjEYrjohZ8aoBoc/edit?usp=sharing)
- [sample7](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WfSqLCAEd8W3_s3dpaLPH3JwCG3ucBiK_JsoG8q0K3U/edit?usp=sharing)

### Document Machine Translation (sequence length 4k):

-   [sample](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wqKAyHx7IzJIS0nH9zFYM6KxkjR1qlnYjaECUI9YmmY/edit?usp=sharing)

## How to Cite

If you extend or use this work, please cite the
[paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2003.05997) where it was introduced:

```
@article{roy2020efficient,
  title={Efficient content-based sparse attention with routing transformers},
  author={Roy, Aurko and Saffar, Mohammad and Vaswani, Ashish and Grangier, David},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2003.05997},
  year={2020}
}
```

Commit message:

Add open domain QA results and a link to a pre-trained checkpoint.
PiperOrigin-RevId: 340040910

routing_transformer/README.md, after:

# Efficient content-based sparse attention with Routing Transformers

<img src = "image/routing_attention.png" alt="Routing attention">

Code-base accompanying the [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2003.05997). See also
the accompanying [slides](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1maX-UQbtnVtxQqLmHvWVN6LNYtnBaTd9/view?usp=sharing)
for a quick overview.

### Updates

* Routing Transformer + [REALM](https://github.com/google-research/language/tree/master/language/realm)
  is now [SOTA](https://eval.ai/web/challenges/challenge-page/689/leaderboard/1908#leaderboardrank-1)
  on long form Question Answering (QA) on the
  [ELI5 data-set](https://github.com/facebookresearch/ELI5) on the Knowledge
  Intensive Language Tasks (KILT) [benchmark](https://github.com/facebookresearch/KILT)
  from [Facebook AI](https://ai.facebook.com/blog/introducing-kilt-a-new-unified-benchmark-for-knowledge-intensive-nlp-tasks/).

## Pre-trained Checkpoint
A pre-trained Routing Transformer trained on the (PG-19)[https://github.com/deepmind/pg19]
data-set with a context window of `8192` and corresponding to the hparam setup
of `pg19_local_cluster8k` can be found (here)[https://storage.googleapis.com/rt-checkpoint/checkpoint.zip].

## Explanation of hyperparameters

### Local Attention

*   `local_num_heads`: Number of local attention heads
*   `query_shape`: This represents the shape of the query block.
    *   For 1-d local attention with block size `b`, this would be `(b,)`
*   `memory_query_shape`: This represents the query shape of memory antecedent
    and is useful for encoder-decoder attention
    * This is usually set the same as `query_shape` by default
    * This is useful when inputs and targets are of different lengths
    * E.g., if inputs are of length `4096` and targets of length `8192`
    * Plausible setting:`query_shape = (256,)`, `memory_flange = (256,)` and
      `memory_query_shape = (128,)`
    * This is because with block size `256`, the targets will have `32` blocks
    * To match this in enc-dec attention, the inputs must have `32` blocks
    * This is why we set `memory_query_shape = (4096/32,) = (128,)`
*   `memory_flange`: This represents the overlap of the memory block
    * Example setting: `query_shape = (b,)` and `memory_flange = (m * b, )`
    * Masked: Each query block attends to `m` previous blocks
    * Unmasked: Each query block attends to `m` previous & `m` subsequent blocks
    * Setting this to `(0,)` means all the blocks are independent of each other
    * Setting to `(0,)` is used for full attention, or for axial attention
    * This must be a multiple of `query_shape` in every dimension
*   Example setting can be found in `sparse_transformer.py` under `pg19_local8k`

### Routing Attention

*   `sparsity_cluster_num_heads`: Number of routing attention heads
*   `sparsity_cluster_size`: Number of clusters
*   `sparsity_cluster_attention_window`: Average size of each cluster
*   `sparsity_skip_first`: Number of initial layers to skip routing attention
    *   `sparsity_skip_first = 0` would have routing attention in every layer
    *   `sparsity_skip_first` equalling total layers would have no routing
        attention
*   Example setting can be found in `sparse_transformer.py` under
    `pg19_local_cluster8k`

## Samples

### PG-19 (sequence length 8k):

- [sample1](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YE6644MprOr1vJkY0lJPeYswJQxncBmD_O12LQAMxIA/edit?usp=sharing)
- [sample2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UwCYAbIMHOXe07X5ELMwTPa90rqrZCGiJML4jywc0yY/edit?usp=sharing)
- [sample3](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dC2zNExumaaxTu7BiClo88bZ0JKJMAJolJQDkcOHT70/edit?usp=sharing)
- [sample4](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zoYG-x_1ElNZc6TatHfGgasNKAuOEqtaBI91ygfb2jA/edit?usp=sharing)
- [sample5](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XvwY8jFUGGEw3S2HzNx7gBg-9nzSRWHtQVNQAyTVuAU/edit?usp=sharing)
- [sample6](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RZrOI8e7n7czgA_a7Mt34ePymUFwyjEYrjohZ8aoBoc/edit?usp=sharing)
- [sample7](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WfSqLCAEd8W3_s3dpaLPH3JwCG3ucBiK_JsoG8q0K3U/edit?usp=sharing)

### Document Machine Translation (sequence length 4k):

-   [sample](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wqKAyHx7IzJIS0nH9zFYM6KxkjR1qlnYjaECUI9YmmY/edit?usp=sharing)

## How to Cite

If you extend or use this work, please cite the
[paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2003.05997) where it was introduced:

```
@article{roy2020efficient,
  title={Efficient content-based sparse attention with routing transformers},
  author={Roy, Aurko and Saffar, Mohammad and Vaswani, Ashish and Grangier, David},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2003.05997},
  year={2020}
}
```
