aqt/README.md, before:

# Accurate Quantized Training

This directory contains libraries we have written for running and analyzing
neural network quantization experiments.

## Installation
```
# Install SVN to only download the aqt directory of Google Research.
sudo apt install subversion

# Download this directory
svn export https://github.com/google-research/google-research/trunk/aqt

# Upgrade pip
pip install --user --upgrade pip

# Install the requirements from `requirements.txt`
pip install --user -r aqt/requirements.txt
```

## Reporting Tool

After a training run has completed, the reporting tool in
`report_utils.py` allows you to generate a concise experiment report with aggregated metrics,
and metadata. It parses TFEvent files saved during training e.g. via `tf.summary.SummaryWriter` and simulates early stopping.
The logic to parse TFEvent files directly is implemented in `tfevent_utils.py`.

### Main Features

- **Complementary:** This tool is *not* meant to replace the Tensorboard
  interface to visualizing the temporal graphs TfEvents files. Rather it is
  meant to provide a reliable way to create summarized reports (metrics
  snapshot at the simulated early stopping step) that can be easily loaded into
  tables/dataframes for comparing experiments at scale.

-   **Lightweight:** Gathers raw metrics directly from TFEvents files written to
    a directory during training.

-   **Fast scalable analysis:** Since reports are usually generated at the end
    of training, loading existing reports is fast and no aggregation needs to be
    performed at analysis time. This allows us to load thousands of reports and
    analyze them together.

-   **Flexible:** Can be used for different numeric metrics and machine learning
    tasks (e.g. translation, image recognition).

-   **Customizable:** Add more fields to the report to save the
    information you need for experiment analysis.

-   **All reports in one place:** Creating small aggregated report files and
    saving them to a centralized directory allows the user to document and find
    experiments more easily, and compare against all previously run experiments.
    The tool provides a function to load all reports saved to a directory.

### Smoothing, Simulated Early Stopping and Aggregated Metrics

The reporting tool performs the following steps to extract the aggregated
metrics:

1.  Apply smoothing as specified to the early stopping metric, e.g. eval loss

2.  Find early stopping step on the smoothed series, e.g. where eval loss is
    minimized

3.  Extract aggregated smoothed and unsmoothed values for all metrics at the
    early stopping step

### Handling of NaN values

In some cases, an experiment contains NaN (not a number) values in its event
series, but the user may still want to produce a report for it by stopping early
on a step where the early stopping metric is not NaN.

Smoothing is not well-defined for series containing NaN values. Because of that,
we decided to not apply smoothing on experiments containing NaN values in any of
its metrics.

Before computing the early stopping step and aggregating the metrics, the tool
checks for NaNs in all event series. If any NaNs are found, no smoothing will be
applied for early stopping and metric aggregation. Only unsmoothed metrics will
be included in the report.

## Usage
-  Ensure that your TFEvent files are saved in a directory in one of the following structures:

### A: Subdirectories for each dataset
```bash
├── <model_dir>
│   ├── <train_ds_dir>
│   │   ├── events.out.tfevents.[...]
│   │   ├── events.out.tfevents.[...]
│   │   ├── (Any number of tfevent files is ok, as long as they are generated by a single run)
│   ├── <eval_ds1_dir>
│   │   ├── events.out.tfevents.[...]
│   ├── <eval_ds2_dir>
│   │   ├── events.out.tfevents.[...]
│   ├── <eval_ds3_dir>
│   │   ├── events.out.tfevents.[...]
│   ├── ...
│   └── other files or dirs, non tfevent files will be ignored.

```

### B: All TFEvents files stored in top-level directory
```bash
├── <model_dir>
│   ├── events.out.tfevents.[...]
│   ├── events.out.tfevents.[...]
│   ├── events.out.tfevents.[...]
│   ├── ...
│   └── other files or dirs, non tfevent files will be ignored.

```

### Report Creation

After training has completed, call `report_utils.create_end_of_training_report()`.
The function will return an instance of the `report_utils.ExperimentReport` dataclass.
Please refer to the docstrings for more details on the arguments.

-   **Early stopping:** You can specify which attribute/tag, aggregation function
    and optionally which subdirectory to use for determining the early stopping step. You can also
    indicate after which step to consider early stopping.
    This can be useful when you modify your model / data during training, and you only
    want to consider the model after some modification (e.g. quantization).

    The following example A command simulates early stopping based on when the `loss`
    (`early_stop_attr='loss'`) in the `eval_ds1` subdirectory (`early_stop_ds_dir='eval_ds1'`) is minimized (`early_stop_agg=report_utils.MinOrMax.MIN`), considering only steps after 20000 (`start_step=20000`).

-   **Tags to include:** When you use the tensorflow summary writer, you can save values
    to different tags, like `loss`. You can specify which tags to include in your report
    via the `tags_to_include` arg.

    In the example, `accuracy`, `loss` , `l2_loss` values at the early stopping step on `eval_ds1` (early_stop_ds_dir), `train_ds` and `eval_ds2` (other_ds_dirs) will be included in the report. If a tag does not exist for a specified ds_dir, it won't show up in the report unter that ds_dir. In the example, only `train_ds` has `l2_loss`.

-   **Smoothing:** Optionally, you can smooth the metrics, which can be helpful when the evaluation is done on subsets of a dataset and the values are noisy. To configure smoothing,
    specify a smoothing_kernel, and window_size_in_steps, which defines the
    smoothing window size.

    In the example, we use a triangular smoothing kernel
    and a window size of 6000 (`window_size_in_steps=6000`), which should include roughly 5 events, given the evaluation frequency of 1087 (`eval_freq=1087`).

-   **Additional experiment details:** Optionally, you can include experiment_name,
    user_name, launch_time, tensorboard_id in your report.

### Example A: If your TfEvent files are stored in subdirectories corresponding to different datasets

```python
report = report_utils.create_end_of_training_report_oss(
            model_dir='/lisa/test_experiment',
            early_stop_ds_dir='eval_ds1',
            early_stop_attr='loss',
            early_stop_agg=report_utils.MinOrMax.MIN,
            other_ds_dirs=['train_ds', 'eval_ds2'],
            tags_to_include=['accuracy', 'loss', 'l2_loss'],
            smoothing_kernel=report_utils.SmoothingKernel.TRIANGULAR,
            eval_freq=1087,
            window_size_in_steps=6000,
            start_step=20000,
            num_train_steps=200000,
            experiment_name='test_experiment',
            user_name='lisa',
            launch_time='20210216T071237'.
            tensorboard_id='<tensorboard_dev_url>'
         )
```

The resulting report dataclass would look like this:

```
{
 'early_stop_step': 179355,
 'eval_freq': 1087,
 'experiment_name': 'test_experiment',
 'first_nan_step': None,
 'launch_time': '20210216T071237',
 'model_dir': '/lisa/test_experiment',
 'num_train_steps': 200000,
 'report_query_args': {'early_stop_agg': 'MIN',
                       'early_stop_attr': 'loss',
                       'early_stop_ds_dir': 'eval1',
                       'other_ds_dirs': ['train',
                                         'eval2',],
                       'smoothing_kernel': 'TRIANGULAR',
                       'start_step': 20000,
                       'tags_to_include': ['accuracy',
                                           'loss',
                                           'l2_loss'],
                       'window_size_in_steps': 6000},
 'tensorboard_id': '8773780292699030478',
 'metrics': {'eval1': {'accuracy': 0.680,
                       'loss': 1.387},
             'eval2': {'accuracy': 0.576,
                       'loss': 1.691},
             'train': {'accuracy': 0.624,
                       'loss': 1.591
                       'l2_loss':5.125},
             }
 'unsmoothed_metrics': {'eval1': {'accuracy': 0.675,
                                  'loss': 1.390},
                        'eval2': {'accuracy': 0.573,
                                  'loss': 1.695},
                        'train': {'accuracy': 0.625,
                                  'loss': 1.590
                                  'l2_loss':5.122},
                         }
 'user_name': 'lisa'}

```

### Example B: if your TFEvent files are stored in top-level model_dir, without sub-directories
```python
report = report_utils.create_end_of_training_report_oss(
            model_dir='/lisa/test_experiment',
            early_stop_attr='eval1_loss',
            early_stop_agg=report_utils.MinOrMax.MIN,
            tags_to_include=['train_loss', 'train_acc', 'eval1_loss', 'eval1_acc'],
            smoothing_kernel=report_utils.SmoothingKernel.TRIANGULAR,
            eval_freq=1087,
            window_size_in_steps=6000,
            start_step=20000,
            num_train_steps=200000,
            experiment_name='test_experiment',
            user_name='lisa',
            launch_time='20210216T071237',
            tensorboard_id='<tensorboard_dev_url>'
         )
```

The resulting report dataclass would look like this:

```
{
 'early_stop_step': 179355,
 'eval_freq': 1087,
 'experiment_name': 'test_experiment',
 'first_nan_step': None,
 'launch_time': '20210216T071237',
 'model_dir': '/lisa/test_experiment',
 'num_train_steps': 200000,
 'report_query_args': {'early_stop_agg': 'MIN',
                       'early_stop_attr': 'eval1_loss',
                       'early_stop_ds_dir': None,
                       'other_ds_dirs': None,
                       'smoothing_kernel': 'TRIANGULAR',
                       'start_step': 20000,
                       'tags_to_include': ['train_loss',
                                           'train_acc',
                                           'eval1_loss',
                                           'eval1_acc'],
                       'window_size_in_steps': 6000},
 'tensorboard_id': '8773780292699030478',
 'metrics': {'eval1_loss': 1.387,
             'eval1_acc': 0.576,
             'train_loss': 1.591,
             'train_acc': 0.624
             }
 'unsmoothed_metrics': {'eval1_loss': 1.390,
                        'eval1_acc': 0.675,
                        'train_loss': 1.590,
                        'train_acc': 0.625
                       }
 'user_name': 'lisa'}

```

Commit message:

Adds AQT (Accurate Quantized Training) libraries for jax and linen layers; AQT is `what you serve is what you train` quantization library.
PiperOrigin-RevId: 368956604

aqt/README.md, after:

# Accurate Quantized Training

This directory contains libraries for running and analyzing
neural network quantization experiments in JAX and flax.

Contributors: Shivani Agrawal, Lisa Wang, Jonathan Malmaud, Lukasz Lew,
Pouya Dormiani, Phoenix Meadowlark, Oleg Rybakov.

## Installation
```
# Install SVN to only download the aqt directory of Google Research.
sudo apt install subversion

# Download this directory
svn export https://github.com/google-research/google-research/trunk/aqt

# Upgrade pip
pip install --user --upgrade pip

# Install the requirements from `requirements.txt`
pip install --user -r aqt/requirements.txt
```

## AQT Quantization Library

`Jax` and `Flax` quantization libraries provides `what you serve is what you train`
quantization for convolution and matmul. See [this README.md](./jax/README.md).

## Reporting Tool

After a training run has completed, the reporting tool in
`report_utils.py` allows you to generate a concise experiment report with aggregated metrics,
and metadata. It parses TFEvent files saved during training e.g. via `tf.summary.SummaryWriter` and simulates early stopping.
The logic to parse TFEvent files directly is implemented in `tfevent_utils.py`.

### Main Features

- **Complementary:** This tool is *not* meant to replace the Tensorboard
  interface to visualizing the temporal graphs TfEvents files. Rather it is
  meant to provide a reliable way to create summarized reports (metrics
  snapshot at the simulated early stopping step) that can be easily loaded into
  tables/dataframes for comparing experiments at scale.

-   **Lightweight:** Gathers raw metrics directly from TFEvents files written to
    a directory during training.

-   **Fast scalable analysis:** Since reports are usually generated at the end
    of training, loading existing reports is fast and no aggregation needs to be
    performed at analysis time. This allows us to load thousands of reports and
    analyze them together.

-   **Flexible:** Can be used for different numeric metrics and machine learning
    tasks (e.g. translation, image recognition).

-   **Customizable:** Add more fields to the report to save the
    information you need for experiment analysis.

-   **All reports in one place:** Creating small aggregated report files and
    saving them to a centralized directory allows the user to document and find
    experiments more easily, and compare against all previously run experiments.
    The tool provides a function to load all reports saved to a directory.

### Smoothing, Simulated Early Stopping and Aggregated Metrics

The reporting tool performs the following steps to extract the aggregated
metrics:

1.  Apply smoothing as specified to the early stopping metric, e.g. eval loss

2.  Find early stopping step on the smoothed series, e.g. where eval loss is
    minimized

3.  Extract aggregated smoothed and unsmoothed values for all metrics at the
    early stopping step

### Handling of NaN values

In some cases, an experiment contains NaN (not a number) values in its event
series, but the user may still want to produce a report for it by stopping early
on a step where the early stopping metric is not NaN.

Smoothing is not well-defined for series containing NaN values. Because of that,
we decided to not apply smoothing on experiments containing NaN values in any of
its metrics.

Before computing the early stopping step and aggregating the metrics, the tool
checks for NaNs in all event series. If any NaNs are found, no smoothing will be
applied for early stopping and metric aggregation. Only unsmoothed metrics will
be included in the report.

## Usage
-  Ensure that your TFEvent files are saved in a directory in one of the following structures:

### A: Subdirectories for each dataset
```bash
├── <model_dir>
│   ├── <train_ds_dir>
│   │   ├── events.out.tfevents.[...]
│   │   ├── events.out.tfevents.[...]
│   │   ├── (Any number of tfevent files is ok, as long as they are generated by a single run)
│   ├── <eval_ds1_dir>
│   │   ├── events.out.tfevents.[...]
│   ├── <eval_ds2_dir>
│   │   ├── events.out.tfevents.[...]
│   ├── <eval_ds3_dir>
│   │   ├── events.out.tfevents.[...]
│   ├── ...
│   └── other files or dirs, non tfevent files will be ignored.

```

### B: All TFEvents files stored in top-level directory
```bash
├── <model_dir>
│   ├── events.out.tfevents.[...]
│   ├── events.out.tfevents.[...]
│   ├── events.out.tfevents.[...]
│   ├── ...
│   └── other files or dirs, non tfevent files will be ignored.

```

### Report Creation

After training has completed, call `report_utils.create_end_of_training_report()`.
The function will return an instance of the `report_utils.ExperimentReport` dataclass.
Please refer to the docstrings for more details on the arguments.

-   **Early stopping:** You can specify which attribute/tag, aggregation function
    and optionally which subdirectory to use for determining the early stopping step. You can also
    indicate after which step to consider early stopping.
    This can be useful when you modify your model / data during training, and you only
    want to consider the model after some modification (e.g. quantization).

    The following example A command simulates early stopping based on when the `loss`
    (`early_stop_attr='loss'`) in the `eval_ds1` subdirectory (`early_stop_ds_dir='eval_ds1'`) is minimized (`early_stop_agg=report_utils.MinOrMax.MIN`), considering only steps after 20000 (`start_step=20000`).

-   **Tags to include:** When you use the tensorflow summary writer, you can save values
    to different tags, like `loss`. You can specify which tags to include in your report
    via the `tags_to_include` arg.

    In the example, `accuracy`, `loss` , `l2_loss` values at the early stopping step on `eval_ds1` (early_stop_ds_dir), `train_ds` and `eval_ds2` (other_ds_dirs) will be included in the report. If a tag does not exist for a specified ds_dir, it won't show up in the report unter that ds_dir. In the example, only `train_ds` has `l2_loss`.

-   **Smoothing:** Optionally, you can smooth the metrics, which can be helpful when the evaluation is done on subsets of a dataset and the values are noisy. To configure smoothing,
    specify a smoothing_kernel, and window_size_in_steps, which defines the
    smoothing window size.

    In the example, we use a triangular smoothing kernel
    and a window size of 6000 (`window_size_in_steps=6000`), which should include roughly 5 events, given the evaluation frequency of 1087 (`eval_freq=1087`).

-   **Additional experiment details:** Optionally, you can include experiment_name,
    user_name, launch_time, tensorboard_id in your report.

### Example A: If your TfEvent files are stored in subdirectories corresponding to different datasets

```python
report = report_utils.create_end_of_training_report_oss(
            model_dir='/lisa/test_experiment',
            early_stop_ds_dir='eval_ds1',
            early_stop_attr='loss',
            early_stop_agg=report_utils.MinOrMax.MIN,
            other_ds_dirs=['train_ds', 'eval_ds2'],
            tags_to_include=['accuracy', 'loss', 'l2_loss'],
            smoothing_kernel=report_utils.SmoothingKernel.TRIANGULAR,
            eval_freq=1087,
            window_size_in_steps=6000,
            start_step=20000,
            num_train_steps=200000,
            experiment_name='test_experiment',
            user_name='lisa',
            launch_time='20210216T071237'.
            tensorboard_id='<tensorboard_dev_url>'
         )
```

The resulting report dataclass would look like this:

```
{
 'early_stop_step': 179355,
 'eval_freq': 1087,
 'experiment_name': 'test_experiment',
 'first_nan_step': None,
 'launch_time': '20210216T071237',
 'model_dir': '/lisa/test_experiment',
 'num_train_steps': 200000,
 'report_query_args': {'early_stop_agg': 'MIN',
                       'early_stop_attr': 'loss',
                       'early_stop_ds_dir': 'eval1',
                       'other_ds_dirs': ['train',
                                         'eval2',],
                       'smoothing_kernel': 'TRIANGULAR',
                       'start_step': 20000,
                       'tags_to_include': ['accuracy',
                                           'loss',
                                           'l2_loss'],
                       'window_size_in_steps': 6000},
 'tensorboard_id': '8773780292699030478',
 'metrics': {'eval1': {'accuracy': 0.680,
                       'loss': 1.387},
             'eval2': {'accuracy': 0.576,
                       'loss': 1.691},
             'train': {'accuracy': 0.624,
                       'loss': 1.591
                       'l2_loss':5.125},
             }
 'unsmoothed_metrics': {'eval1': {'accuracy': 0.675,
                                  'loss': 1.390},
                        'eval2': {'accuracy': 0.573,
                                  'loss': 1.695},
                        'train': {'accuracy': 0.625,
                                  'loss': 1.590
                                  'l2_loss':5.122},
                         }
 'user_name': 'lisa'}

```

### Example B: if your TFEvent files are stored in top-level model_dir, without sub-directories
```python
report = report_utils.create_end_of_training_report_oss(
            model_dir='/lisa/test_experiment',
            early_stop_attr='eval1_loss',
            early_stop_agg=report_utils.MinOrMax.MIN,
            tags_to_include=['train_loss', 'train_acc', 'eval1_loss', 'eval1_acc'],
            smoothing_kernel=report_utils.SmoothingKernel.TRIANGULAR,
            eval_freq=1087,
            window_size_in_steps=6000,
            start_step=20000,
            num_train_steps=200000,
            experiment_name='test_experiment',
            user_name='lisa',
            launch_time='20210216T071237',
            tensorboard_id='<tensorboard_dev_url>'
         )
```

The resulting report dataclass would look like this:

```
{
 'early_stop_step': 179355,
 'eval_freq': 1087,
 'experiment_name': 'test_experiment',
 'first_nan_step': None,
 'launch_time': '20210216T071237',
 'model_dir': '/lisa/test_experiment',
 'num_train_steps': 200000,
 'report_query_args': {'early_stop_agg': 'MIN',
                       'early_stop_attr': 'eval1_loss',
                       'early_stop_ds_dir': None,
                       'other_ds_dirs': None,
                       'smoothing_kernel': 'TRIANGULAR',
                       'start_step': 20000,
                       'tags_to_include': ['train_loss',
                                           'train_acc',
                                           'eval1_loss',
                                           'eval1_acc'],
                       'window_size_in_steps': 6000},
 'tensorboard_id': '8773780292699030478',
 'metrics': {'eval1_loss': 1.387,
             'eval1_acc': 0.576,
             'train_loss': 1.591,
             'train_acc': 0.624
             }
 'unsmoothed_metrics': {'eval1_loss': 1.390,
                        'eval1_acc': 0.675,
                        'train_loss': 1.590,
                        'train_acc': 0.625
                       }
 'user_name': 'lisa'}

```
